[Music]
so you're lying on your couch in the
evening watching that bright side video
on your phone yeah it's hard to resist
isn't it but all of a sudden the sound
turns off all by itself you tap your
finger on the phone check the volume but
everything seems to be alright just no
sound you click off the video and start
to get up when you suddenly realize you
can't hear your own movements the
silence is disconcerting you try to say
something but no words come out of your
mouth you shape them you feel them but
you can't hear them you slap yourself in
the ears hard but only feel stinging and
nothing else
panic is rising you look out the window
and see the city something's clearly off
cars stop erratically and turn on the
emergency brake lights people in the
streets just you're too much and look
around them in Wonder and fear you have
a daunting suspicion that it's not only
about you you check everything that
makes sounds turn up the music to the
max but you only feel the vibrations
through your body this is not the time
to panic but what can you do you decide
to try and wait it out you take a book
lie down and try to remain calm while
turning mute pages at last you fall
asleep day 2 waking up has never been so
sweet nothing bothered you throughout
the night you yawn and then the reality
crashes upon you sound still hasn't
returned you frantically check your
alarm clock 10 a.m. sure thing you've
overslept you swipe your clothes and put
them on running to the bathroom but step
on something soft and fall face-first
ouch it your cat and it's clearly not
heard you coming same as you sorry
plushie you scramble to your feet but
lose your footing for a split second and
nearly fall again it seems your inner
ear has been affected too and that's bad
its responsible for balance let's hope
it doesn't get worse you somehow finish
your morning routine and even have a
quick cup of coffee on the go
just as you leave your house you
remember to put your phone on vibration
otherwise you won't know if someone
called you and there's a message from a
friend hey do you hear anything what's
going on so it's the whole city then you
reply that you don't know and go to the
office time to do something the streets
are deserted even though it's Monday
morning you walk all alone in utter
silence and look to the sides every
second just in case when you get to the
office you expect to see no one but
there are a few colleagues they all seem
lost
pale but glad to see you you talk using
a messenger
it's your only means of communication
now after some time though you all
decide to leave because no work can be
done now you get back home and write to
everyone who matters all their replies
are similar to each other we can't hear
a thing
day ten life is finally coming back on
track for the last week all services and
all work just stalled people were
getting used to the mute world now
everyone more readily walks out of their
homes and even goes about their daily
business the city must function and loss
of hearing isn't going to change that
everywhere you go people are looking
intently at their smartphone screens
even when they're not alone a group of
teenagers walks towards you one of them
is typing something then sends it and
looks at his friends while they're
reading they start laughing without a
sound one of them stumbles and nearly
falls others laugh again at the office
everything seems okay nobody's chatting
and your productivity only wins from
that lunch takes longer than usual
because everyone wants to talk a bit and
you'll have to create a group chat apart
from that the day goes as usual day 30
sign language lessons have become a new
trend everyone you know decided to learn
it because they've grown tired of typing
messages you start forgetting how the
world sounds music is non-existent
street musicians have disappeared and
all concerts have been cancelled TV
still works
but it's adapted to all programs now
have a running subtitle and none of the
people on screen open their mouths as
for the radio you don't even know if
it's working at all the Internet has
long been one of the primary means of
communication but now messengers are
booming apps have been developed that
allow people to type whole words and
even phrases with gestures skipping
letters walking around the city you
notice that people have become clumsy or
two today you've met at least four
people who stumbled out of nowhere and
fell flat on their faces
weird day 90 the world is becoming more
visual and touchable to compensate for
the lack of sound bright ads in the
streets have become even brighter all
warnings and notifications are now
flashing like crazy and vibrating if
applicable new types of horns have been
invented for cars they sent forward a
powerful sound wave that can't be heard
but is felt like a vibration even in
another car roads have become much safer
overall no one wants to drive fast
without hearing anything instead of
radio transmissions professionals such
as pilots or police officers started
using Morse code with each signal giving
a tiny shot but there's more and more
news appearing of people losing control
of complex machinery or simply falling
at the most unfortunate places doctors
start raising alarm day 180 deafness has
finally reached its peak the medical
community was right after some time
people started having troubles with
their inner ear keeping balance is
becoming an ordeal for many doctors
advised not to sit behind the wheel if
you're feeling dizzy problems with the
labyrinth the part of your inner ear may
cause you to lose concentration and get
into an accident many drivers pilots and
machine operators have resigned from
their positions it's become too
dangerous engineers are working hard to
automate transport and machinery but
it's a race against time the number of
flights has reduced dramatically and
people all over the world can't go where
they planned or even home day 270 a
solution has been found for the inner
ear disorder it stabilizes the balancing
mechanism making you sure-footed again
the breakthrough becomes instantly
popular and people stand in huge lines
to get the new device meanwhile muteness
doesn't change the society even a little
bit the order is as perfect as ever and
people have learned to communicate
without voice or ears apart from the
balanced problem it seems nothing's
affected the life of humanity even
better construction and renovation works
have been allowed at night previously
they've been banned because of all the
noise but now that nobody hears a thing
even blasting off with a jackhammer is
not a problem anymore
the only limitation is the vibration if
it's too much then the works are
prohibited day 360 almost a year is
passed since everybody around the world
lost their hearing the balance aids work
like a charm
so navigation and transportation has
resumed people live their normal lives
but for God how to use their tongues
some traditions have changed though
eating has become a ritual of silence
not a place for an idle chat who can
hold a fork and knife and talk with
gestures at the same time taxi driving
is now one of the most responsible and
silent occupations ever long gone are
the days when you could sit in the front
and hear a good story everybody in the
back now for safety movies and TV shows
are either subtitled or mute altogether
emergency signals transformed from sound
blares to extra bright flashing lights
police ambulance and rescue services are
all equipped with vibro horns life goes
on
day 366 you wake up with a start it's
morning and your alarm clock is buzzing
under the pillow
wait buzzing yes not just vibrating but
actually giving off that sound and then
all other sounds start pouring into your
ears making you go slightly crazy you
didn't even realize how much noise is
all around us every moment cars outside
giraffe from the open window even slight
humming of the fridge it all shocks you
so much you can't move and just slap
your palms over your ears and life in
the city stops again after a year
without a sound everyone is too
perplexed to get about their lives
suddenly your phone start buzzing again
mom's calling with shaky hands you tap
the answer icon and hold the phone to
your ear and then you hear a crack and
uncertain but so familiar voice saying
hello
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life
[Music]